CSS counter() function (#30583)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/counters/index.md

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`counters()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions) enables nested counters, returning a concatenated string representing the current values of the named and nested counters, if any, optionally in a specific list style.

Reviewer: - The sentence is too long and in the later half is somewhat not clear. Does the suggested text convey the intended meaning?
- Even in this suggestion, ", and can optionally be displayed in a specific list style." can perhaps be written as a separate sentence to clarify what is being referred to
```suggestion
The **`counters()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions) enables the use of nested counters. It returns a string that concatenates the current values of the named and nested counters, if any are present, and can optionally be displayed in a specific list style.
```

> The `counters()` function is generally used within [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements) {{cssxref("content")}}, but can be used, theoretically, anywhere a [`<string>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/string) value is supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `counters()` function is generally used within [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Pseudo-elements) through the {{cssxref("content")}} property, but theoretically, it can be used wherever a [`<string>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/string) value is supported.
```

> The `counters()` function has two forms: `counters(<name>, <string>)` and `counters(<name>, <string>, <style>)`. The generated text is the value of all counters with the given `<name.`, from outermost to innermost, separated by the specified `<string>`. The counters are rendered in the `<style.` indicated, defaulting to `decimal` if no `<style>` was specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `counters()` function has two forms: `counters(<name>, <string>)` and `counters(<name>, <string>, <style>)`. The generated text is the value of all counters with the given `<name>`, arranged from the outermost to the innermost, and separated by the specified `<string>`. The counters are rendered in the `<style>` indicated, defaulting to `decimal` if no `<style>` is specified.
```

{{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/tabbed/function-counters.html", "tabbed-standard")}}

## Syntax

```css
/* Simple usage  - style defaults to decimal */
counters(countername, '.');

/* changing the counter display */
counters(countername, '-', upper-roman)
```

A [counter](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_counter_styles/Using_CSS_counters) has no visible effect by itself. The `counters()` function (and {{cssxref("counter", "counter()")}} function) is what makes it useful by returning developer-defined content.

### Values

The `counters()` function accepts two or three parameters. The first parameter is the `<counter-name>`. The second parameter is the concatenator `<string>`. The optional third parameter is the `<counter-style>`.

- `<counter-name>`

>   - : A {{cssxref("&lt;custom-ident&gt;")}} identifying the counters, which is the same case-sensitive name used for the {{cssxref("counter-reset")}} and {{cssxref("counter-increment")}} properties. The name cannot start with two dashes and can't be `none`, `unset`, `initial`, or `inherit`. Alternatively, for inline, single-use counters, the {{cssxref("symbols")}} function can be used instead of a named counter in [`symbols()` supporting browsers](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/symbols#browser_compatibility).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A {{cssxref("&lt;custom-ident&gt;")}} identifying the counters, which is the same case-sensitive name used for the {{cssxref("counter-reset")}} and {{cssxref("counter-increment")}} properties. The name cannot start with two dashes and can't be `none`, `unset`, `initial`, or `inherit`. Alternatively, for inline, single-use counters, the {{cssxref("symbols")}} function can be used instead of a named counter in [browsers that support `symbols()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/symbols#browser_compatibility).
```

- {{cssxref("&lt;string&gt;")}}
  - : Any number of text characters. Non-Latin characters must be encoded using their Unicode escape sequences: for example, `\000A9` represents the copyright symbol.
- `<counter-style>`

>   - : A counter style name or [`symbols()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/symbols) function, where a counter style name is a numeric, alphabetic, or symbolic simple predefined counter style, a complex longhand east Asian or Ethiopic predefined counter style, or other [predefined counter style](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_counter_styles). If omitted, the counter-style defaults to decimal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A counter style name or a [`symbols()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/symbols) function. The counter style name can be a simple predefined style such as numeric, alphabetic, or symbolic, a complex longhand predefined style such as East Asian or Ethiopic, or another [predefined counter style](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_counter_styles). If omitted, the counter-style defaults to decimal.
```

> The return value is the a string containing all the values of all the counters in the element's CSS counters set named `<counter-name>` in the the counter style defined by `<counter-style>` (or decimal, if omitted), sorted in outermost-first to innermost-last order, joined by the `<string>` specified.

Reviewer: Very long sentence. Please consider splitting and rewriting
```suggestion
The return value is a string containing all the values of all the counters in the element's CSS counters set named `<counter-name>` in the counter style defined by `<counter-style>` (or decimal, if omitted), sorted in outermost-first to innermost-last order, joined by the `<string>` specified.
```

> > **Note:** See the {{cssxref("counter", "counter()")}} function, which omits the `<string>` a parameter, for non-concatenated counters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** For information about non-concatenated counters, see the {{cssxref("counter", "counter()")}} function, which omits the `<string>` as a parameter.
```

> ### default value compared to upper Roman

Reviewer: Should this be:
```suggestion
### Comparing default counter value to uppercase roman numerals
```

> This example includes two `counters()` functions; one with `<counter-style>` set and the other defaulting to `decimal`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example includes two `counters()` functions: one with `<counter-style>` set and the other defaulting to `decimal`.
```

#### CSS

```css-nolint
ol {
  counter-reset: listCounter;
}
li {
  counter-increment: listCounter;
}
li::marker {
  content:
    counters(listCounter, ".", upper-roman) ") ";
}
li::before {
  content:
    counters(listCounter, ".") " == "
    counters(listCounter, ".", lower-roman);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("default_value_compared_to_upper_Roman", "100%", 270)}}

> ### decimal-leading-zero compared to lower-alpha

Reviewer: Should this be:
```suggestion
### Comparing decimal-leading-zero counter value to lowercase letters
```

#### CSS

```css-nolint
ol {
  counter-reset: count;
}
li {
  counter-increment: count;
}
li::marker {
  content:
    counters(count, "-", decimal-leading-zero) ") ";
}
li::before {
  content:
    counters(count, "~", upper-alpha) " == "
    counters(count,  "*", lower-alpha);
}
```

#### Result

> {{EmbedLiveSample("decimal-leading-zero_compared_to_lower-alpha", "100%", 270)}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{EmbedLiveSample("Comparing decimal-leading-zero counter value to lowercase letters", "100%", 270)}}
```
